today the European Union stepped up the
pressure on Israel to support a
two-state solution to the Israeli
Palestinian conflict the message was
crystal clear from Brussels two states
Israel and Palestine are the only
credible way to have peace in the Middle
East European Union foreign ministers
held talks in Brussels today on the
conflict Israel's foreign minister and
the Palestinians top Diplomat were both
at the table France's foreign minister
said there will be a need for a
Palestinian state with sec security
guarantees for everyone after the war in
Gaza is has ended other ministers echoed
that call as well as a appealing for the
release of Israeli hostages being held
by
Hamas this puts the European Union on a
collision course with Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu he refuses
to consider Palestinian Independence and
he says that Israel must control
security from the River Jordan to the
Mediterranean an area that would include
an independent Palestine Now that
statement brings Israel again into
conflict with its number one Ally the
United States as well as other
International allies such as Germany
Germany is a staunch supporter of
Israel's right to defend itself against
Hamas German foreign minister analina
barbach she's paid several visits to
Israel since the October subth Terror
attacks today in Brussels she made it
clear that Berlin thinks a two-state
solution is the only way to achieve
long-term
peace Israel can only be safe if
Palestinians are safe and if they can
live with
dignity and Palestinians can only be
safe and live with dignity and freedom
if Israel is
safe that is why the two-state solution
is the only solution and all of those
who are not in favor of this have so far
failed to come up with an alternative
solution there can only be peace if
there's peace for all the people living
in the
region let me pull in our correspondent
now Rosie birchard she's been following
the meeting in Brussels for us Rosie
tell us what the EU wants to see happen
in the Middle East when the war in Gaza
is
over yeah well the EU says that quite
simply the only way to ensure a
sustainable and enduring a credible
peace in the region is to have the
creation of a Palestinian state but of
course that's not simple at all is it
and nor is it anything new this is the
EU
long-standing position but the
accusation that's been leveled in the
block and even really acknowledged by
the eu's foreign policy Chief yose
Burell is that for decades the EU and
other Global actors have been paying lip
service to this idea but not actually
doing anything to back up those words
now what we've seen here in Brussels is
an effort to try and have the EU move
from being what really looked like a
bystander in this deadly conflict to a
bit more of a broker so we saw Brussels
today corralling around different actors
so the Israeli
foreign minister the Palestinian foreign
minister but also counterparts from
example from Saudi Arabia from Jordan
from Egypt and what Brussels is trying
to do is float some ideas uh including
for example what it's called a
preparatory peace Summit that would
involve those actors but also for
example the United Nations and the
United States to try and look at some of
these big ideas for the future so the
bid to try and broker something here is
certainly underway whether or not it's
going to actually make any difference
especially on the ground As We Know that
very dire humanitarian situation both
for gazans and and for Israeli hostages
which rages on and of course as
mentioned by a lot of foreign ministers
here in Brussels today that that
situation simply is not getting any
better and we know that the Israeli
Prime Minister he has basically you know
trashed the idea of Palestinian
statehood I I'm wondering what makes the
European Union think that um it's going
to be listened to by the Israeli
government well I think the European
union feels that it was not listen to
and I certainly sensed a a bit of
frustration at these talks here in
Brussels today for example I was told
Minister showed up expecting to have a
conversation about a two-state solution
with their Israeli counterpart instead
the Israeli Minister Minister Kat went
on to show two videos which included
connectivity projects including an
artificial island of Gaza so that really
seemed to spark a bit of disappointment
among you ministers we had the eu's
foreign policy Chief saying that really
the Israeli Minister could have used his
time better and I even spoke to
Portugal's foreign minister on the
sidelines of these talks and he was even
more strident saying really calling on
Israel prime minister to revise his
position of course from the Israeli side
here there was calls to really keep the
focus on that situation the the Israeli
Minister brought out pictures of a baby
that's being held hostage and of course
this is a really primordial question of
security for Israel not least to say of
course the Palestinian Minister who was
president had a similarly passionate
appeal talking about the plight of gazan
children yeah let me ask you Ros we've
got about a minute left what about in
inside the European Union itself I mean
how United is the EU when we're talking
about a push for a two-state
solution yeah the EU is united in that
call for a two-state solution but that's
really about it the European Union is
divided overall on how to approach this
conflict we have on the one hand for
example Germany which really emphasizes
Israel's right to self-defense due to
not least that historical responsibility
that Germany has to protect Jewish life
on the other end of the spectrum
countries like Ireland and Spain that
have been quite clearly and early on
calling for a permanent ceasefire there
now what I would say is that in the
early days after that uh terror attack
by Hamas on October 7th there was a real
cacophony of different positions from
the EU that messaging has now quieted
there is less of a kind of messy
messaging what I think will be the case
is that moving forward EU States will
continue to really speak more on their
own behalf and less as the eu27 as a
United block here simply because what
they can agree on is very little and and
in many ways limited really to that call
for a two-state solution Rosie Berard
with the ladies from Brussels tonight
Rosie as always thank
you Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has once again rejected what
he says are conditions for the release
of hostages being held by Hamas and
there has been no letup in the fighting
in Gaza Palestinians say that the city
of hanun has been subjected to the worst
bombardment since the start of this war
officials say at least 50 people have
been killed and more than a 100 wounded
gaza's Health Ministry which is run by
Hamas and Hamas as you may know is
classified as a terrorist
organization smoke billows over gaza's
southern city of khun as Israel's
military continues its bombing campaign
it's latest strike forcing dozens of the
Wounded into hospitals that are
overwhelmed and under resourced children
and babies are among those injured or
killed doctors say they're struggling to
treat
patients I'm telling you the hospital is
on the brink of collapse we all are
we're running out of medical staff and
supplies nothing is reaching us there's
nothing in the hospital to treat
patients with no painkillers no
anesthetics no medical
resources Israel's military has been
focused its offensive on the southern
city where its battles against Hamas
Fighters are
intensifying explosions and gunfire echo
through the refugee camps in the Gaza
Strip most of the population have had to
move more than once to find
safety where do we go this is the 17th
time I've left my home where am I
supposed to go to Rafa Rafa is just one
Street
what do they want from us do they expect
2.3 million people to live in an area
that's no wider than 200 M and can't be
longer than a
kilometer pressure is mounting on
Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu after he rejected terms
offered by Hamas to end the war in Gaza
in exchange for the release of hostages
there and opposed the creation of an
independent Palestinian
state and relatives of Israeli hostages
in Gaza disrupted a parliamentary
committee meeting calling for their
loved ones to be
freed this comes as EU leaders meet in
Brussels to discuss the situation in
Gaza and what will happen after the war
while there are deep divisions on
calling for a ceasefire many including
the eu's foreign policy Chiefs still
think establishing a two-state solution
is the only way
forward I think that we have to stop
talking about the Beast the peace
process and they start talking more
concretely about the two State solution
process because pie could be many
different pieces what kind of a piece
you're talking about so let's talk about
what we want to do all we want to do is
to build a two-state solution meanwhile
in Gaza many are trying to find a place
that's not under siege in order to bury
their loved ones as a number of
casualties and displaced people
continues to
[Music]
rise all right for more now I'm joined
by shanea she's Communications advisor
for the humanitarian organization the
Norwegian Refugee Council it's good to
have you with us so the worst Israeli
attacks in hanun since the start of
Israel's Invasion that's how residents
there are describing it what are you
hearing from
Gaza what we're hearing from our teams
in Gaza is that the situation in general
continues to deteriorate day after day
uh we cannot even access khun and have
not been able to access Kan yunes for
days uh because of the fighting that is
ongoing there and the the challenges in
keeping our own staff safe we do have a
handful of Staff who have been seeking
shelter in places in Kanan yunes and
it's been very difficult for us to even
maintain contact with them to know
whether or not they are safe we
understand that many G are now fleeing
leaving hunis and fleeing to Rafa um is
there safety for them
there no there simply is no safe place
in Gaza so long as these hostilities
continue we desperately need a ceasefire
to to put an end to this madness to put
an end to this hell that Palestinians in
Gaza have been subjected to for over 15
weeks now we had staff members who lost
members of their own family uh just in
the last couple of weeks in Rafa Rafa
was remember supposed to be the safe
place now we're seeing Milli over a
million people cram into less than 1 of
the territory in the Gaza Strip seeking
out some type of shelter there's no uh
space in designated shelters to host
these displaced people disease is
spreading uh quickly in shelter in
overcrowded shelters due to unsanitary
conditions sewage is flooding the
streets because people simply don't even
have bathrooms to go in uh to use and so
this is a this is a situation that is
increasingly concerning to us and we're
increasingly concerned that Israel might
continue their ass their op ground
operations further south into Rafa where
so many civilians have sought Refuge the
European Union is now pushing hard for a
two-state solution to the Israeli
Palestinian crisis that is now in direct
opposition to what the Israeli Prime
Minister wants the US also wants a
two-state solution I mean these
differences have never been so clear and
they've never been so public what does
this type of tension mean for your
work well I think netanyahu's statements
this week really demonstrate what we've
been warning about in the West Bank for
for years now that Israelis uh continue
to to illegally colonize and settle uh
in the West Bank in the occupied West
Bank destroying any OPP opportunity or
potential for a negotiated two-state
solution we've seen pal inan communities
forced off their lands uh forced out of
area C of the West Bank these are some
of the most vulnerable communities I
think uh the International Community
needs to continue to put pressure to
abide on uh to put pressure on Israel to
abide by their obligations under
international law of course all parties
to this conflict must be abiding by
international law but what we've seen is
a complete rejection from the Israeli
government uh and its leaders of of uh
the international Ally uh acceptable
political solution for this conflict
it's indeed very troubling Shan
Communications adviser with the
Norwegian Refugee Council in Jerusalem
Shaya we appreciate your time tonight
thank
you thank
you and as we said the families of those
hostages being held by Hamas today
stormed the Israeli Parliament our
correspondent Tanya Kramer in Jerusalem
has more there have been a group of uh
relatives of those hostages there
believed to be
136 hostages are still believed to be
held in Gaza um uh by Hamas and other
groups uh there um they have been
storming uh a a a parliamentary session
of a committee uh saying uh that enough
is enough uh that you know the uh they
shouldn't sit there they should do
something uh to the parliamentarians and
we've seen this here in the past days
they have also on Sunday night there
have been uh um relatives and families
uh of those hostages they have pitched
tents in front of the prime minister's
private residents uh in uh Jerusalem
saying they're not going to budge from
there they're going to stay there
they're going to block uh traffic um you
know they're becoming more more
desperate in the sense that they say we
are not being heard by the politicians
and that uh what the government is
saying that more pressure on Hamas will
bring those hostages home or will bring
another deal is clearly not working and
that every day uh uh uh those people
their loved ones are staying in Gaza is
a difficult day and that their run their
time is basically running
out